
=head1 PL/Rakudo Part 1: PL/Parrot Reboot

=over 1

=item Name:

Jonathan "Duke" Leto

=item Email:

jonathan@leto.net

=item Amount Requested:

$3000

=back

=head2 Synopsis

PL/Parrot allows one to embed Parrot Virtual Machine into PostgreSQL and make
it available as a stored procedure language. PL/Rakudo (previously called
PL/Perl6) uses Rakduo Perl 6 from PL/Parrot to enable one to write stored
procedures in Rakudo Perl 6. Basically, PL/Rakudo is the spunky kid sister of
PL/Perl and uses PL/Parrot to load the Rakudo Perl 6 High Level Language (HLL).

Currently PL/Parrot is out of date and needs to be updated to the new Parrot
embedding API, as well as updating to PostgreSQL 9.x and taking into account
changes to Rakudo that have happened in the meantime.

This grant proposal can be thought of as #1 in the beginning of a series of 4 grants:

    1) Rewrite PL/Parrot from scratch with the new Parrot embed API
    2) Update PL/Parrot to use PostgreSQL 9.x language best practices
    3) Implement new PL/PIR and PL/Winxed, which are core Parrot Languages
    4) Write a new PL/Rakudo using PL/Winxed

=head2 Benefits to the Perl Community

PL/Rakudo will allow people to write stored procedures in PostgreSQL with Rakudo Perl 6, which
will make Rakudo fell much more "production-ish".

=head2 Deliverables

=head2 Project Details

Many small details need to be added here.

=head2 Inch-stones

If your grant is going to take longer than a week it's useful to break
down your project into small chunks. This helps everybody track of
progress, and lets you see if your project schedule is practical!

Try and think in "inch-stones" rather than "mile-stones". Breaking down
your grant into many small goals makes it harder to overlook
difficulties, and easier to see progress as you complete your grant.

=head2 Project Schedule

=head2 Completeness Criteria

This grant will be considered complete when the above-added features are
present in a release of PL/Parrot. PL/Parrot will target PostgreSQL 9.x,
the latest stable release of Parrot Virtual Machine and
Rakudo Perl 6.

This release will be available for download on github.com and will
be released on the PostgreSQL Extension Network, PGXN.

=head2 Bio

Who are you? What makes you the best person to work on this project?

=head2 References

[1] http://www.pgxn.org

=cut
